README.md, before:

# Cookiecutter template for SQAaaS reporting plugins (aka validators)

This repository uses the [cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/)
template system to help you create new output validator plugins for the
SQAaaS platform.

## How this document is organized?
1. Jump to section [recommended workflow](#recommended-workflow) to create the
   plugin structure (in the form of a Python module).
2. Once having the structure, you are required to implement a specific method
   (the `validate()` method) containing the logic of the validation process.
   Follow the
   [remarks section](#remarks-on-the-plugin-implementation) to know about the
   main considerations you should look into.
   - The already
   [supported plugins](https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins)
   might help you throughout this task).

## Remarks on the plugin implementation
* [Generate the Python module structure for the plugin](#generate-the-python-module-structure-for-the-plugin)
* [Implement the validate() method](#implement-the-validate-method)
* [Contribute to reporting-sqaaas-plugins](#contribute-to-reporting-sqaaas-plugins)

### Generate the Python module structure for the plugin
#### Using the cookiecuttter template
If not already in your environment, install
[cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/) executable:
```console
$ pip install cookiecutter
```

Now you are ready to create the validator plugin module using the
template from this repository:
```console
$ cookiecutter https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-cookiecutter
```

#### The plugin module structure
The following folder structure is created by cookiecutter:
```console
└── {{cookiecutter.criterion}}_{{cookiecutter.plugin_name}}
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── report2sqaaas_plugins_{{cookiecutter.plugin_name}}
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── main.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── test-requirements.txt
    └── tests
        └── test_validator.py
```

#### The template input data
At the time of writing, the cookiecutter tool does not provide a straightforward
way to explain the inputs needed from the user in order to create the plugin. As
a consequence, this section will explain them further:
* `plugin_name`: a valid Python module name for the plugin.
* `tool_name`: name of the tool whose output will be validated by the plugin.
* `tool_url`: homepage (URL) of the tool.
* `criterion`: identifier of the quality criterion supported by SQAaaS the given
   tool fits best into. Check out the definition of the supported criteria in the
   following links:
   - Software QA criteria: https://indigo-dc.github.io/sqa-baseline
   - Service QA criteria: https://eosc-synergy.github.io/service-qa-baseline

   _Note: there is a special value `qc_ALL` meant for validating common stdouts,
           such as boolean values_
 * `author`: first and last name of the main developer.
 * `author_email`: email address of the main developer.
 * `plugin_class_name`: name of the main plugin class.
 * `threshold`: minimum value (integer) required for the validation assessment
   to be successful.
   - If a value is set here, the class `plugin_class_name` will have a `threshold`
     attribute, which can be accessed as `self.threshold` inside the methods of the
     class.
 * `has_additional_cli_args`: say 'yes' if the plugin has additional CLI arguments
   on top of the ones provided by the `BaseValidator` class.
 * `has_subcriteria`: say 'yes' when the plugin reports a list of subcriteria being
   fulfilled.

### Implement the validate() method
The `validate()` method must:
1. Be implemented in the validator class.
   - It is a class method so it must define the `self` argument (see example below)
3. Return a dictionary containing *at least* the `valid` key, with a boolean value
   (True|False) that marks the validation as successful or unsuccessful.

The most simple example could be:
```python
class FooValidator(BaseValidator):
    valid = False

    def validate(self):
       return {'valid': self.valid}
```
#### Some remarks when implementing validate() method
- The *validator class* has the following *set of attributes* that can be used when
  implementing the `validate()` method:
  - `name`: validator name (available as `self.name`)
  - `opts`: object that contains the attributes provided when the class is
    instantiated. Those are the same as the input arguments of the
    [report2sqaaas](https://github.com/eosc-synergy/reporting-sqaaas) module,
    such as `validator` (available as class attribute `self.opts.validator`),
    `stdout` (`self.opts.stdout`) or `threshold` (`self.opts.threshold`).
- The validator's test cases..
  - They follow a test-driven development (TDD) approach in order to make sure that
    the `validate()` method has been defined in the validator class. Thus, the
    generated module provides two test cases out of the box:
    - `validate()` method has been implemented.
    - `validate()` method returns a dictionary with the `valid` flag.
  - They require a sample output of the tool being validated in order to successfully
    pass the `test_validate_method_output` test. The *output shall be placed within
    the pytest fixture `<tool_name>_stdout()`* in
    [test_validator.py](%7B%7Bcookiecutter.criterion%7D%7D_%7B%7Bcookiecutter.plugin_name%7D%7D/tests/test_validator.py).
    The generated plugin will contain
    [instructions on how to run the tests](%7B%7Bcookiecutter.criterion%7D%7D_%7B%7Bcookiecutter.plugin_name%7D%7D/README.md#testing).

### Contribute to reporting-sqaaas-plugins
Once you have implemented the `validate()` method and the tests are passing, you should
contribute to the existing set of validator plugins of the SQAaaS reporting component.
To this end, create a pull request to
[reporting-sqaaas-plugins](https://github.com/eosc-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins).


## Recommended workflow

1. Fork https://github.com/eosc-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins, clone it & chdir to it.
2. Create a Python virtualenv to install the dependencies:
   ```console
   $ python3 -m venv venv
   $ source venv/bin/activate
   $ pip install cookiecutter
   ```
3. Run cookiecutter, as described in [previous section](#using-the-cookiecuttter-template)
   - This will place the new validator plugin within the root path of the fork repository.
   ```console
   $ cookiecutter https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-cookiecutter
   ```
4. Chdir to the root path of the generated plugin (`<criterion_name>_<tool_name>` folder) and deploy
   the development environment:
   - Install plugin dependencies:
     ```console
     $ pip install -r requirements.txt
     $ pip install -r test-requirements.txt
     ```
   - Install the plugin:
     ```console
     $ pip install -e .
     ```
   - Follow the TDD approach by running `pytest` to double check that the `validate()` method
     is not yet implemented.
     ```console
     $ pytest -svv
     ```
     `pytest` should show an error message similar to the one below:
     ```console
     TypeError: Can't instantiate abstract class FooValidator with abstract method validate
     ```
5. Implement the `validate()` method, as pictured in [previous section](#implement-the-validate-method)
   - Follow remarks from previous section (remark #2)
   - Try out your new validator using `report2sqaaas` CLI:
     - First you need to generate the output from the tool being validated.
     ```console
     $ # Generate the <tool_name> output & store it in <file_name>
     $ report2sqaaas <plugin_name> <file_name>
     ```
9. Once the plugin is doing the expected job, rerun the tests:
   ```console
   $ pytest -svv
   ```
   and check that they are actually passing.
10. Add & commit the plugin within the fork.
11. Create a PR to the upstream repo (from where the fork has been created).

Commit message:

Improve definition of has_additional_cli_args property

README.md, after:

# Cookiecutter template for SQAaaS reporting plugins (aka validators)

This repository uses the [cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/)
template system to help you create new output validator plugins for the
SQAaaS platform.

## How this document is organized?
1. Jump to section [recommended workflow](#recommended-workflow) to create the
   plugin structure (in the form of a Python module).
2. Once having the structure, you are required to implement a specific method
   (the `validate()` method) containing the logic of the validation process.
   Follow the
   [remarks section](#remarks-on-the-plugin-implementation) to know about the
   main considerations you should look into.
   - The already
   [supported plugins](https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins)
   might help you throughout this task).

## Remarks on the plugin implementation
* [Generate the Python module structure for the plugin](#generate-the-python-module-structure-for-the-plugin)
* [Implement the validate() method](#implement-the-validate-method)
* [Contribute to reporting-sqaaas-plugins](#contribute-to-reporting-sqaaas-plugins)

### Generate the Python module structure for the plugin
#### Using the cookiecuttter template
If not already in your environment, install
[cookiecutter](https://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/) executable:
```console
$ pip install cookiecutter
```

Now you are ready to create the validator plugin module using the
template from this repository:
```console
$ cookiecutter https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-cookiecutter
```

#### The plugin module structure
The following folder structure is created by cookiecutter:
```console
└── {{cookiecutter.criterion}}_{{cookiecutter.plugin_name}}
    ├── CONTRIBUTING.md
    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md
    ├── report2sqaaas_plugins_{{cookiecutter.plugin_name}}
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── main.py
    ├── requirements.txt
    ├── setup.cfg
    ├── setup.py
    ├── test-requirements.txt
    └── tests
        └── test_validator.py
```

#### The template input data
At the time of writing, the cookiecutter tool does not provide a straightforward
way to explain the inputs needed from the user in order to create the plugin. As
a consequence, this section will explain them further:
* `plugin_name`: a valid Python module name for the plugin.
* `tool_name`: name of the tool whose output will be validated by the plugin.
* `tool_url`: homepage (URL) of the tool.
* `criterion`: identifier of the quality criterion supported by SQAaaS the given
   tool fits best into. Check out the definition of the supported criteria in the
   following links:
   - Software QA criteria: https://indigo-dc.github.io/sqa-baseline
   - Service QA criteria: https://eosc-synergy.github.io/service-qa-baseline

   _Note: there is a special value `qc_ALL` meant for validating common stdouts,
           such as boolean values_
 * `author`: first and last name of the main developer.
 * `author_email`: email address of the main developer.
 * `plugin_class_name`: name of the main plugin class.
 * `threshold`: minimum value (integer) required for the validation assessment
   to be successful.
   - If a value is set here, the class `plugin_class_name` will have a `threshold`
     attribute, which can be accessed as `self.threshold` inside the methods of the
     class.
 * `has_additional_cli_args`: say 'yes' if the plugin has additional CLI arguments
   on top of the ones provided by the `BaseValidator` class.
   - Enabling additional CLI args will add a `populate_parser(parser)` method inside
     the class `plugin_class_name`. The `parser` input argument is an
     [argparse.ArgumentParser](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#argparse.ArgumentParser)
     object, and thus, can be used to extend the number of CLI arguments for this
     validator by using the
     [add_argument()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html#the-add-argument-method)
     method.
 * `has_subcriteria`: say 'yes' when the plugin reports a list of subcriteria being
   fulfilled.

### Implement the validate() method
The `validate()` method must:
1. Be implemented in the validator class.
   - It is a class method so it must define the `self` argument (see example below)
3. Return a dictionary containing *at least* the `valid` key, with a boolean value
   (True|False) that marks the validation as successful or unsuccessful.

The most simple example could be:
```python
class FooValidator(BaseValidator):
    valid = False

    def validate(self):
       return {'valid': self.valid}
```
#### Some remarks when implementing validate() method
- The *validator class* has the following *set of attributes* that can be used when
  implementing the `validate()` method:
  - `name`: validator name (available as `self.name`)
  - `opts`: object that contains the attributes provided when the class is
    instantiated. Those are the same as the input arguments of the
    [report2sqaaas](https://github.com/eosc-synergy/reporting-sqaaas) module,
    such as `validator` (available as class attribute `self.opts.validator`),
    `stdout` (`self.opts.stdout`) or `threshold` (`self.opts.threshold`).
- The validator's test cases..
  - They follow a test-driven development (TDD) approach in order to make sure that
    the `validate()` method has been defined in the validator class. Thus, the
    generated module provides two test cases out of the box:
    - `validate()` method has been implemented.
    - `validate()` method returns a dictionary with the `valid` flag.
  - They require a sample output of the tool being validated in order to successfully
    pass the `test_validate_method_output` test. The *output shall be placed within
    the pytest fixture `<tool_name>_stdout()`* in
    [test_validator.py](%7B%7Bcookiecutter.criterion%7D%7D_%7B%7Bcookiecutter.plugin_name%7D%7D/tests/test_validator.py).
    The generated plugin will contain
    [instructions on how to run the tests](%7B%7Bcookiecutter.criterion%7D%7D_%7B%7Bcookiecutter.plugin_name%7D%7D/README.md#testing).

### Contribute to reporting-sqaaas-plugins
Once you have implemented the `validate()` method and the tests are passing, you should
contribute to the existing set of validator plugins of the SQAaaS reporting component.
To this end, create a pull request to
[reporting-sqaaas-plugins](https://github.com/eosc-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins).


## Recommended workflow

1. Fork https://github.com/eosc-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-plugins, clone it & chdir to it.
2. Create a Python virtualenv to install the dependencies:
   ```console
   $ python3 -m venv venv
   $ source venv/bin/activate
   $ pip install cookiecutter
   ```
3. Run cookiecutter, as described in [previous section](#using-the-cookiecuttter-template)
   - This will place the new validator plugin within the root path of the fork repository.
   ```console
   $ cookiecutter https://github.com/EOSC-synergy/sqaaas-reporting-cookiecutter
   ```
4. Chdir to the root path of the generated plugin (`<criterion_name>_<tool_name>` folder) and deploy
   the development environment:
   - Install plugin dependencies:
     ```console
     $ pip install -r requirements.txt
     $ pip install -r test-requirements.txt
     ```
   - Install the plugin:
     ```console
     $ pip install -e .
     ```
   - Follow the TDD approach by running `pytest` to double check that the `validate()` method
     is not yet implemented.
     ```console
     $ pytest -svv
     ```
     `pytest` should show an error message similar to the one below:
     ```console
     TypeError: Can't instantiate abstract class FooValidator with abstract method validate
     ```
5. Implement the `validate()` method, as pictured in [previous section](#implement-the-validate-method)
   - Follow remarks from previous section (remark #2)
   - Try out your new validator using `report2sqaaas` CLI:
     - First you need to generate the output from the tool being validated.
     ```console
     $ # Generate the <tool_name> output & store it in <file_name>
     $ report2sqaaas <plugin_name> <file_name>
     ```
9. Once the plugin is doing the expected job, rerun the tests:
   ```console
   $ pytest -svv
   ```
   and check that they are actually passing.
10. Add & commit the plugin within the fork.
11. Create a PR to the upstream repo (from where the fork has been created).
